README.md, before:


<div align="center">
  <h1>Jonas Vanhulst</h1>
  <p>Embedded Systems Engineer • Robotics • Automation</p>
</div>

---

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/jonas-vanhulst-b62719332/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white" height="25" alt="LinkedIn"/></a><a href="https://github.com/JonasVanhulst"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-181717?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white" height="25" alt="GitHub"/></a>
</div>


</div>

## 👩‍💻 About Me

🎓 I am a graduate in **Electronics-ICT** with a strong passion for **embedded systems, robotics, and automation**.  
🔭 I am currently strengthening my skills in **Python** and **C/C++**.  
🌱 I graduated from **PXL University**, specializing in **Electronics-ICT**, and I also hold a degree from **VIA** in **Electronics-Mechanics**.  
💬 Ask me anything about **embedded systems**, **robotics** and **automation** .  
📫 How to reach me: **GitHub & LinkedIn**.  
🚀 I am actively seeking opportunities in **Embedded Systems**, **Robotics Engineering**, and **Automation Engineering**.  
⚡ Fun fact: I love **cycling**.

I am especially interested in building **autonomous systems and robots that solve real-world problems**, such as self-driving and obstacle-avoiding vehicles.

During my studies, I worked on **end-to-end IoT applications**, **AI development**, and several **embedded projects**, including:
- A **self-driving obstacle-avoiding car** using **PSoC^** that also can execute commands that are send over MQTT.
- A **self-driving obstacle-avoiding car** using **PYNQ-Z2** to evaluate performance across platforms (psoc6).

---


## 💻 Technical Skills

### Programming Languages
**Proficient:**
- C / Embedded C  
- C++  
- Python  

**Small Experience with:**
- Rust (embedded)
- TypeScript
- React
- Swift
- SQL & InfluxDB

---

### Embedded Platforms & Hardware
- **Xilinx PYNQ-Z2**
  - FPGA block design in **Vivado**
  - Embedded application development in **Vitis Classic**
  - Linux + Jupyter Notebook integration
  - Real-time and autonomous system projects (e.g. self-driving vehicle)
- **Infineon PSoC 6**
  - RTOS-based embedded development
  - Low-level driver and peripheral programming
- **Raspberry Pi**
  - Ubuntu/Linux-based IoT systems
  - Edge device development
- Real-time operating systems (RTOS)

---

### PLC & Automation
- **Siemens** PLC & TIA Portal (secondary education)
- **Beckhoff** PLC & TwinCAT (PXL)
- Industrial automation & control systems

---

### Tools, Frameworks & Technologies
**Proficient:**
- Vivado & Vitis-Classic
- Modustoolbox (PsoC 6)
- Qt (desktop applications)
- Git & GitHub
- JetBrains IDEs
- VS Code

**Worked with:**
- Docker
- OpenCV
- GStreamer (NVIDIA) 
- FastAPI
- Express.js
- Socket.IO
- InfluxDB
- MySQL
- Insomnia
- Blender

---

## ⭐ Featured Projects
**Note:** Some academic projects are private to respect plagiarism policies, but I am happy to discuss my approach, architecture, and implementation details in interviews.

### 🔧 RTSP Camera Viewer (Qt / C++)
A desktop application for viewing and managing RTSP camera streams.  
**Technologies:** C++, Qt, RTSP  
<!-- 🔗 [View Repository](https://github.com/JonasVanhulst/REPO_NAAM) -->

---

### 🤖 Embedded & Autonomous Systems Projects (PSoC / PYNQ / RTOS)

A collection of embedded projects developed during my studies, focusing on autonomous vehicles, FPGA-based designs, and real-time applications.  
All projects were programmed using **RTOS** and are private due to academic policies, but the concepts, architecture, and technical challenges can be discussed.

---

#### **PSoC Autonomous Car**
Developed a self-driving vehicle using a **PSoC 6**, equipped with:
- HC-R04 ultrasonic sensor
- Speed sensor (wheel encoder)
- Object detection sensors  

The vehicle autonomously navigates a course, avoiding obstacles and finding its way from point A to point B.

---

#### **PSoC 2.0**
Enhanced the autonomous car to handle **MQTT commands** from an instructor:
- Can follow instructions in real-time  
- Supports “follow-the-leader” mode upon request  

**Technical challenge:** An analysis showed the PSoC could not fully handle all MQTT tasks due to **thread limitations**, reaching its performance ceiling.

---

#### **Xilinx PYNQ-Z2 Autonomous Car**
- Designed custom **IP blocks** to interface with sensors via **Vitis Classic**  
- Programmed autonomous navigation for the vehicle, enabling it to complete routes without collisions  

**Technical highlight:** Combined FPGA design (Vivado) and embedded application development (Vitis) for real-time autonomous control.

---

### 🌐 End-to-End IoT Platform
An end-to-end IoT system including embedded devices, backend APIs, real-time communication, and dashboards.  
**Technologies:** React, Typsecript, Express.js, Python, FastAPI, Docker, Socket.IO, InfluxDB  
<!-- 🔗 [View Repository](https://github.com/JonasVanhulst/REPO_NAAM) -->
- 🔗 [View Home Assist](https://github.com/JonasVanhulst/Home_Assist)

---

### ⚙️ PLC Automation Project (Beckhoff / TwinCAT)
Industrial automation project using Beckhoff PLCs, focusing on control logic, safety, and real-world industrial workflows.  
**Technologies:** TwinCAT, Structured Text, Industrial I/O  
<!-- 🔗 [View Repository](https://github.com/JonasVanhulst/REPO_NAAM)  -->
- 🔗 [View Beckhoff Motion](https://github.com/JonasVanhulst/Beckhoff_Motion)

---

## 🔥 GitHub Stats

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=JonasVanhulst&show_icons=true&theme=dracula&hide_border=false" height="150" />
  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs?username=JonasVanhulst&layout=compact&theme=dracula&hide_border=false" height="150" />
</div>

---

Commit message:

Revise README with new project details and sections
Updated project descriptions and added new sections for Qt desktop applications, including a Connect4 network game and a Dungeons & Dragons card simulator.

README.md, after:


<div align="center">
  <h1>Jonas Vanhulst</h1>
  <p>Embedded Systems Engineer • Robotics • Automation</p>
</div>

---

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/jonas-vanhulst-b62719332/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white" height="25" alt="LinkedIn"/></a><a href="https://github.com/JonasVanhulst"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-181717?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white" height="25" alt="GitHub"/></a>
</div>


</div>

## 👩‍💻 About Me

🎓 I am a graduate in **Electronics-ICT** with a strong passion for **embedded systems, robotics, and automation**.  
🔭 I am currently strengthening my skills in **Python** and **C/C++**.  
🌱 I graduated from **PXL University**, specializing in **Electronics-ICT**, and I also hold a degree from **VIA** in **Electronics-Mechanics**.  
💬 Ask me anything about **embedded systems**, **robotics** and **automation** .  
📫 How to reach me: **GitHub & LinkedIn**.  
🚀 I am actively seeking opportunities in **Embedded Systems**, **Robotics Engineering**, and **Automation Engineering**.  
⚡ Fun fact: I love **cycling**.

I am especially interested in building **autonomous systems and robots that solve real-world problems**, such as self-driving and obstacle-avoiding vehicles.

During my studies, I worked on **end-to-end IoT applications**, **AI development**, and several **embedded projects**, including:
- A **self-driving obstacle-avoiding car** using **PSoC6** that also can execute commands that are send over MQTT.
- A **self-driving obstacle-avoiding car** using **PYNQ-Z2** to evaluate performance across platforms (psoc6).
- Qt Desktop Applications: Developed networked and GUI-based applications including a Connect4 game with ZeroMQ, a D&D card simulator, and an RTSP camera viewer, showcasing skills in GUI design and networking.

---


## 💻 Technical Skills

### Programming Languages
**Proficient:**
- C / Embedded C  
- C++  
- Python  

**Small Experience with:**
- Rust (embedded)
- TypeScript
- React
- Swift
- SQL & InfluxDB

---

### Embedded Platforms & Hardware
- **Xilinx PYNQ-Z2**
  - FPGA block design in **Vivado**
  - Embedded application development in **Vitis Classic**
  - Linux + Jupyter Notebook integration
  - RTOS-based embedded development
  - Real-time and autonomous system projects (e.g. self-driving vehicle)
- **Infineon PSoC 6**
  - RTOS-based embedded development
  - Low-level driver and peripheral programming
- **Raspberry Pi**
  - Ubuntu/Linux-based IoT systems
  - Edge device development
- Real-time operating systems (RTOS)

---

### PLC & Automation
- **Siemens** PLC & TIA Portal (secondary education)
- **Beckhoff** PLC & TwinCAT (PXL)
- Industrial automation & control systems

---

### Tools, Frameworks & Technologies
**Proficient:**
- Vivado & Vitis-Classic
- Modustoolbox (PsoC 6)
- Qt (desktop applications)
- Git & GitHub
- JetBrains IDEs
- VS Code

**Worked with:**
- Docker
- OpenCV
- GStreamer (NVIDIA) 
- FastAPI
- Express.js
- Socket.IO
- InfluxDB
- MySQL
- Insomnia
- Blender

---

## ⭐ Featured Projects
**Note:** Some academic projects are private to respect plagiarism policies, but I am happy to discuss my approach, architecture, and implementation details in interviews.

### 🔧 RTSP Camera Viewer (Qt / C++)
A desktop application for viewing and managing RTSP camera streams.  
**Technologies:** C++, Qt, RTSP  
<!-- 🔗 [View Repository](https://github.com/JonasVanhulst/REPO_NAAM) -->

---

### 🤖 Embedded & Autonomous Systems Projects (PSoC / PYNQ / RTOS)

A collection of embedded projects developed during my studies, focusing on autonomous vehicles, FPGA-based designs, and real-time applications.  
All projects were programmed using **RTOS** and are private due to academic policies, but the concepts, architecture, and technical challenges can be discussed.

---

#### **PSoC Autonomous Car**
Developed a self-driving vehicle using a **PSoC 6**, equipped with:
- HC-R04 ultrasonic sensor
- Speed sensor (wheel encoder)
- Object detection sensors  

The vehicle autonomously navigates a course, avoiding obstacles and finding its way from point A to point B.

---

#### **PSoC 2.0**
Enhanced the autonomous car to handle **MQTT commands** from an instructor:
- Can follow instructions in real-time  
- Supports “follow-the-leader” mode upon request  

**Technical challenge:** An analysis showed the PSoC could not fully handle all MQTT tasks due to **thread limitations**, reaching its performance ceiling.

---

#### **Xilinx PYNQ-Z2 Autonomous Car**
- Designed custom **IP blocks** to interface with sensors via **Vitis Classic**  
- Programmed autonomous navigation for the vehicle, enabling it to complete routes without collisions  

**Technical highlight:** Combined FPGA design (Vivado) and embedded application development (Vitis) for real-time autonomous control.

---

### 🖥️ Qt Desktop Applications

#### **ZeroMQ Connect4 Network Game**
A networked Connect4 game built with **Qt** and **ZeroMQ**, featuring multiple microservices for scalable communication.  
- **Core functionality:** Play Connect4 against other users with a responsive GUI  
- **Architecture:** Multiple services communicate via ZeroMQ for efficiency and reliability  
- **Additional features:** API selection service, real-time user feedback, and planned message storage/logging  
- **Future expansion:** Python service to communicate with embedded devices (e.g., controlling RGB LEDs)
  
---

#### **Dungeons & Dragons Card Simulator (Qt)**
A GUI application to manage **D&D 5e cards**, allowing users to:
- Browse and select cards in an intuitive interface  
- View card details and organize custom lists  
- Future goal: implement playable mechanics to cast cards directly in-game  

**Technologies used:** Qt (C++), GUI design, ZeroMQ (for networked applications), Python (planned embedded integration)

---

### 🌐 End-to-End IoT Platform
An end-to-end IoT system including embedded devices, backend APIs, real-time communication, and dashboards.  
**Technologies:** React, Typsecript, Express.js, Python, FastAPI, Docker, Socket.IO, InfluxDB  
<!-- 🔗 [View Repository](https://github.com/JonasVanhulst/REPO_NAAM) -->
- 🔗 [View Home Assist](https://github.com/JonasVanhulst/Home_Assist)

---

### ⚙️ PLC Automation Project (Beckhoff / TwinCAT)
Industrial automation project using Beckhoff PLCs, focusing on control logic, safety, and real-world industrial workflows.  
**Technologies:** TwinCAT, Structured Text, Industrial I/O  
<!-- 🔗 [View Repository](https://github.com/JonasVanhulst/REPO_NAAM)  -->
- 🔗 [View Beckhoff Motion](https://github.com/JonasVanhulst/Beckhoff_Motion)

---

## 🔥 GitHub Stats

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=JonasVanhulst&show_icons=true&theme=dracula&hide_border=false" height="150" />
  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs?username=JonasVanhulst&layout=compact&theme=dracula&hide_border=false" height="150" />
</div>

---
